Rodrigo:
- The references in the introduction are not really about clouds. They are theory yes, but about general circulation.
  - Indeed. I have rephrased the introduction to further make it clear that we really don't have much theory about clouds. And while general circulation is an integral component of the recipe, it certainly isn't giving you clouds directly.
- would be good to expand a bit more on the physical interpretation of why the particular CCFs used give such a good prediction
  - While I agree with the comment, the paper limits are already beyond the GRL limits... And because this part is the one most repeated in the literature (why these predictors capture cloudiness), I skip it.
- what happens if you use omega_std as a predictor for C?
  - It is a worse predictor (if you want plots+numbers just ask and I send them). It doesn't fit very well with C because its spatial variability, and specifically the ratio of tropics to extratropics, are incompatible with C. Ω_mean is much much better.
- Your line of argument of why Ω_std is a good predictor for L is not fully convincing. A simpler interpretation is that that clouds respond to vertical motion on subdaily scales, which is much better captured by Ω_std while Ω_mean is pretty much irrelevant.
  - One problem I have by presenting this argument, is that it doesn't really align for using Ω_mean instead of Ω_std for cloud albedo. Ω_mean fits exceptionally well with albedo, so we can't say that it doesn't matter. We need to be able to say why it doesn't matter *specifically for longwave*. The timescale argument, as presented so far, is independent of longwave/shortwave spectrum, that's why I wrote about pumping up/down and moisture (it was Bjorn's suggestion actually). To be honest, this is something I'd love to discuss in a CONSTRAIN meeting, because it really isn't fully clear to me how to handle this situation of Ω_std being a good predictor for longwave but not for shortwave :(
- EIS is anomalously low throughout most of the cyclone footprint (Kelleher and Grise), so it is not clear what your mechanical argument is trying to say.
  - That is interesting, because in my analysis, the southern ocean is where EIS is the highest (middle panel of my Fig. 2). So I am not sure what "anomalously low" would mean in this context, perhaps this comes because they analyze daily timescales, and there is perhaps a delay between the actual cyclone existence, and EIS becomes larger in its aftermath? Regardless, this is beyond scope of our paper for sure. My main point is that (to my knowledge) it is not clear how to physically connect EIS as a "good predictor" for midlatitudes. Kelleher and Grise give as arguments exactly the same arguments of why EIS is good as for subtropical subsidence regions. But I have trouble accepting this as the full story, given how different Ω is in midlatitudes and subtropical subsidence regions. That's why I presented the mechanical/kinematic argument. I am very happy to change/improve this, but I am really not sure what is the improved alternative at the moment...


Bjorn:
* I’d really like to see the global CRE numbers, easy for L, but needs integrating against insolation for C->SW-CRE.
  * Yeap, they are now in the text. We depart at most 0.3 W/m^2 from CERES.
* Variable names shouldn't be many italics in a row.
  * Yes, I now use non-italics, and same symbols as Joaquin.
* I was also wondering, in principle, for a simple model what is mostly important is the zonal averaged fits, as temperature (LW) and insolation (SW) mostly varies zonally. Here my question was whether the best fits gave less weight to one or the other parameter. This is a bit hidden.
  * I am not sure if I fully understand the question. Here is what I think the answer is: in Sect. 3.4 we do a zonal-only fit, so this answers the first part. If the parameters of the zonal-only fit are close to the parameters of the full fit, then the different predictors are not really given that much different weight in the zonal fit, right? I did the analysis and now report the numbers in Sect. 3.4. The parameters change very little in the zonal-only fit.
* The similarity (or absence of) of fit parameters across the two different hemispheres may give a good indication/confidence of how much the fit depends on current climate or not.
  * Yes, I did the analysis and the parameters change only slightly. I've added this information in the conclusions.
